I design engineering projects for middle
school and high school students often
using materials that are pretty
unexpected my inspiration comes from
problems in my daily life for example
one time I needed a costume to go to a
comic convention but I didn't want to
spend too much money so I made my own
with a lighter brown and skirt another
time I was devastated because my
favorite mobile game flappy bird was
being taken off the App Store so I was
faced with a dilemma to either never
update my phone or never play flappy
bird again so unhappy with both options
I did the only thing that made sense to
me
I made a physical version of flappy bird
that could never be taken off the App
Store
so few of my friends were also pretty
addicted to the game and I invited them
to play as well and they told me that it
was just as infuriating as the original
game so I uploaded a demo of this
project online and to my surprise it
went viral and had over 2 million views
in just a few days and what's more
interesting are people's comments a lot
of people wanted to make it their own or
ask me how I was made so this kind of
confirmed my idea that through a
creative project that we can teach
people about engineering so with the
money made from the viral video we were
able to let students in our classroom
all make their own gaming a box although
it was pretty challenging they learn a
lot of new concept in engineering and
programming and they were all eager to
learn so they can finish the game as
well
so before flappy bird box I had the idea
of using creative engineering projects
to teach students when I was teaching at
the middle school we asked our students
to build a robot from a standard
technology kit and I noticed that a lot
of them seemed bored then few of them
started taking pieces of paper and
decorating the robots and the more than
got into it and they became more
interesting the project so I started
looking for a more creative ways to
introduce technology to students so what
I found was that most technology kits
available in school looks a little
intimidating they are all made of
plastic parts that you can customize on
top of that they're all very expensive
costing hundreds of dollars per kit so
that's certainly not very affordable for
most classroom budgets since I didn't
find anything I decided to make
something on my own I started with paper
and fabric after all we all play with
those since we were kids and they are
also pretty cheap and can be find any
around the house and I prototype the
project where students can create a
light-up creature using fabric and
googly eyes they were all helping each
other in classrooms and were laughing
and discussing the project and most
importantly they were able to insert
their own creativity into the project so
because of success of this project I
continue to create more engineering
projects to challenge my students and I
also started to take these workshops out
of the school and into the community and
something really interesting happened I
noticed a lot of people from very
diverse backgrounds started coming to
our workshops and specifically there
were a lot more women and minorities
than I expected and that you wouldn't
usually see at a traditional engineering
workshop now take a look at this
employee report at a major technology
company in 2016
women make up only 19% of the technology
workforce and under represented minority
make up only 4% this statistic might
look familiar if you walked into a High
School Robotics Club or a college
engineering class now there's a wide
variety of problems that has been at
contributes to the lack of diversity in
the technology force perhaps one
solution could be to introduce
technology to students through creative
projects I'm not saying that this could
solve everything but it could introduce
technology to people who originally
wouldn't be interested in it because how
it has been portrayed and taught in
school so how do we start to change the
perception of Technology most students
think that it's boring or unwelcoming so
I have always designed projects
following three principles first is
having a low floor and that means this
project is easy to get started so take a
look at this tutorial the first project
we asked you to learn is to make a
circuit on paper as you can see it
doesn't take very long to learn and it's
pretty easy even for beginners
and having a low floor also means that
we are removing the financial barrier
that prevents people from completing a
project so with paper copper tape light
bulb and a battery people can complete
this project for under a dollar so
second principle is having a high
ceiling this means that there's a lot of
room to grow and students are constantly
being challenged so at first it might
just be a light-up creature but then you
can add sensors and microcontrollers and
start to program the creature to
interact with its environment and
finally the third principle is
customization this means that we can
make this project relevant to anyone
that's a beauty of using everyday
materials it's very easy to customize
using paper and fabric so even if you
don't like flappy bird you can still
make your own game so our game is about
Justin Bieber because he's been speeding
and the object is to prevent him from
getting caught by the LA School yeah but
he's he's changing so we're part of his
posse thank you
you